the Galaxy s24 Ultra has had a
controversial launch oh my God AI That's
amazing wait did they just make the
cameras worse 7 years of software
support are you kidding this chipset is
a thermal nightmare I've been seeing it
I've been reading it while I have also
been testing it this is my definitive
review of Samsung's flagship phone of
the year the s24 ultra and also whether
or not I'm going to be permanently
replacing my iPhone for it so let's
start with the outside even though
Samsung swapped out their phone's frame
from aluminium to Titanium and even
though they've now got this brand new
four times stronger than the competition
glass this phone is still not difficult
to damage I've got a whole load of small
scuffs over the sides and they expose
the fact that this matte texture you see
here is only a very thin layer wherever
it's scratched it becomes glossy making
it immediately obvious and the screen is
still wearing and tearing just like
every other phone now maybe this glass
is stronger and maybe if the exact same
things that had happened to this had
also happened to other phones they might
be worse off but the point is I have
been very careful with this phone I've
not dropped it I have not tried to
damage it so basically it's not some
sort of Miracle glass that's going to
solve your durability problems like
Samsung might want you to believe I tell
you I would though if the company still
pre-installed your screen protector like
they used to now that said this design
overall I actually like it even more as
time's gone on every time I pick the
thing up I do think wo this is such a
pretty phone the texture feels great
those even screen borders very
aesthetically pleasing and I'm even
coming around to the flat screen since
the way that Samsung's curved the body
of the phone it doesn't have the
problems that normally come with flat
screens but actually lowkey the biggest
upgrade to the screen which Samsung has
done an awesome job of implementing but
an awful job at communicating is this
reduction to screen glare the s24 ultra
almost completely kills incoming
Reflections which is something we've
seen some phone screens do a little
better than others over the years but
this is the biggest standout that I can
remember and as soon as you experience
it once it becomes instantly clear that
this is the obvious next logical step up
for all screens cuz I mean companies
spent so many years trying to make their
screens more color accurate trying to
make them brighter trying to make them
more contrasty and now you canot just
get that experience but you can actually
retain that experience irrespective of
whether you're sitting next to a window
or whether there's bright sunlight
casting over you it makes this my
favorite screen on a phone full stop so
the outside of the phone is A+ but it's
living with the software that I assumed
would be the difficult part for me you
know when I permanently made the jump
from Samsung 2 iPhone 3 and A2 years ago
the reason I did it was all these little
things little things that build up into
what felt like a bigger thing that it
didn't seem like would ever be fixed
because they're little things like voice
notes it used to sound so muffled that
it was like I was trying to have a
conversation with someone while wearing
three face masks on top of each other
animations which sounds like a really
silly thing but I was getting tired of
phones that kept bragging about how
bleeding edge their processors were but
that still didn't feel fluid and
Instagram stories I kept thinking to
myself what is the point having the best
set of cameras if the moment I try to
share the content from them it just gets
compressed beyond belief it's this kind
of stuff and I honestly came into the
s24 ultra expecting none of it to have
changed I was wrong for one voice notes
they sound crystal clear now drisha has
begrudgingly confirmed to me that even
though she likes the idea of me using an
iPhone that this does sadly sound just
as good as the 15 Pro Max the fluidity
of the phone has gone up multiple levels
in a lot of ways this actually feels
smoother to use than my iPhone 15 Pro
Max like you can read tell with this new
oneui software that Samsung has gone all
in on the little things like the
scrolling acceleration to make things
feel truly like they are gliding
underneath your fingertips and the way
the apps open and close now it is
consistent continuously smooth
animations and it's not just that it
feels quick it looks nice too I was
never a massive fan of Samsung's theming
but in just a couple of generations
they've gone a long way to completely
flipping that narrative this is the
first Samsung phone that I would say is
right out of the box gorgeous you know
the quick panel the way it's organized
the rounded Corners the precise even
spacing between every section like yes
finally the lock screen and the fact
that you can now add widgets you can
change up the style you can scale your
clock to the exact size you want and not
have to conform to some arbitrary
predefined options the fact that it
gives you enough flexibility that you
can very much make it yours while also
building in enough structure that it's
easy it's not overwhelming and whatever
you do it's going to look good and also
the new dark mode running through
through the phone it's not actually
black anymore it's a sort of dark gray
which is one of those things that for me
instantly made the whole phone look a
lot better but I couldn't immediately
place my finger on y I'm sure there will
be people who don't like it but to me
there's something really Pleasant about
not feeling like you're in ultra high
contrast mode all the time it feels less
straining now there are problems with
this software I'm getting to them but my
prevailing feeling is that there's a lot
to like for example when you're on a
video call you just swipe down here and
you've got video effects and microphone
effects it actually works in a very
similar way to the iPhone but it has a
lot of options like you just tap here it
instantly blurs the background very
cinematic you can have a colored
background you can pick an image for
your background and you can also even
adjust the smoothness of your face and
because it works on a core software
level it can persist across whatever app
that you're calling on the haptics are
awesome like typing has never felt
better on any phone and while some past
Samsungs used to have this tiny bit of
lag every now and again while typing it
seems to have been ironed out you've got
the whole goodlock Suite of
customization tools which is kind of the
opposite of what I was saying for the
lock screen this is where you go deep
like since this is Samsung's first
titanium phone I decided to use good
luck to Kit mine with a titanium style
animated volume rocker it's just fun oh
and then the icing on the cake is 7
years of OS updates considering that
just a few years ago the industry
standard was 2 to three that is an
absolutely insane promise and even if
you're not going to use your phone for 7
years you still benefit because when you
come around to selling it if your phone
is still being supported it's likely
going to retain more of its value but
you saw this coming it's not all
sunshine and rainbows as well as all the
upgrades there are quite a few things
that have felt like a downgrade coming
from the 15 Pro Max like Instagram and
Snapchat stories they looked subpar
before they still look pretty subpar
it's not really photos that are the
issue it's just the videos it's like 50%
of the processing and the stabilization
that makes the cameras good disappears
you can kind of get around it by
recording in your native camera app and
switching to 1080p instead of 4K to
avoid being hit with Instagram
compression but that definitely feels
clunky Samsung's face scanner I mean
they've tried like they give you an
option to add an alternate appearance if
say sometimes you wear glasses sometimes
you don't or you can set your screen to
brighten when scanning at night so that
this front camera can actually see you
but night is like the one time that you
don't want to be blasted by light and in
most middle lighting conditions it's
fine but it's just slow it's actually
quite surprising to me that such a big
company with such successful products
still has such a gaping hole cuz there's
no doubt that face scanning is
definitely the more automatic
alternative to fingerprint scanning it's
the future but until Samsung adds in
some sort of infrared 3D scanning Tech
like the iPhone you're not really going
to want to use this for much and there's
a few more things the audio quality is
not quite as good as the iPhone it's a
tiny bit less loud and a tiny bit less
full not having mag safe is actually a
massive downgrade since being able to
charge wirelessly while still being able
to have your phone prop up so that you
can see the
screen is very useful to me Samsung
software while very pretty is definitely
a little more aggressive than it used to
be in an annoying way now more than ever
it really pushes you towards Samsung
services like Samsung pass to store your
passwords So eventually you just get fed
up of it so you click okay but then it's
like oh you need to download the latest
version of pass so you download it and
then it's like oh you need to set up
pass and I'm like go away I'm just
trying to play a game of Bloons the
company knows that the best way to lock
users in is long-term Samsung is to get
them using as many Samsung services as
possible and you definitely feel it
getting shoved down your throat a bit
and then the last gripe which is a
little alarming signal I seem to spend
all my time with this phone on either
two to three bars while I'm outside and
then literally 0 to one when I'm inside
and we did actually have a storm last
week and my Wii went so I was
hotspotting from this I was barely
getting anything speed wise now that is
serious if there's actually a persistent
issue but signal is one of those very
subjective things everyone has a
slightly different signal experience
mine's been bad but it's totally worth
checking out some other reviews too to
see if it is a trend or if I just got
particularly unlucky the high level
takeaway for software should still be
the fact that Samsung has improved a lot
to the point where this might just be
now my favorite Android skin we'll get
to the Galaxy AI stuff in a minute cuz I
have thoughts but I want to touch on
cameras because it's been a bit of a
hotly debated topic as you might have
seen in my camera comparison the s24
ultra cameras are a pretty big
Improvement to the s23 Ultras but just
not in the way that we've come to expect
we're pretty used to each year phones
getting a bit more detailed getting a
bit better in low light zooming a bit
further Samsung's not really done much
of that at all and that's a little sad I
feel like the purpose of an Ultra phone
should be to break new ground to be a
spectacle and to showcase the most
Cutting Edge Tech that the company has
to offer whereas this time around I'm
not pulling it out excitedly on the
street to just see what it can do and I
don't get that brand new toy to play
with feeling because its output is quite
similar to last time but two things one
that doesn't mean it's a bad camera it's
building on what was already a very
strong foundation and two what they have
done this time as part of this massive
software overhaul is made the camera
nicer to use it looks better it's
organized better the animations are
smoother and it captures faster oh and
the screen is so bright that you will
never ever have a problem seeing what
you're shooting again do I wish they'd
also improve the output with a brand new
400 Apel main sensor yeah of course but
was this a much needed Improvement
nonetheless and has the company made
enough improvements in other parts of
the phone for me to forgive them also
yes and the editing the editor on this
phone is one of the things that
constantly reminds me that we're working
with powerful technology you can do
something as obtuse as taking a photo of
another photo yes this is me the phone
will understand that photo and still be
able to instantly apply the portrait
mode effect to make it feel like it is
popping out of your screen and these
instant effects of actually ended up
being a much bigger deal to me than what
Samsung is tting as the key new thing
the generative image editor well that
one obviously is the cooler feature the
better party trick it's actually very
rarely after I've taken a shot do I
think to myself yeah it would actually
be great if this person was here instead
of here I'm glad it exists and I'm
curious to see how it evolves but there
is something that does feel a little
inauthentic about it like it's different
to normal photo editing where you feel
like you can still be proud of a photo
that you took here it's it's almost
bordering on digital art which is cool
but it's not as rewarding in a way plus
the feature is still a bit of effort to
use if it was as simple as you're just
browsing in your gallery you see a
person you pick them up and you move
them and then that's it I probably use
it quite a lot to make subtle
adjustments to things that aren't quite
right but as it is where it's like you
hit the editor then you hit the
generative editor you do your tweaks you
confirm your tweaks you wait for about
10 seconds and then you hit done it's
still a bit long considering that in a
big day out you might take 30 photos
you're not going to do that 30 times and
that is actually a pretty good segue
into Galaxy AI in general what I've been
really trying to work out over the last
few weeks is are these AI features
actually groundbreaking or are they just
gimmicks I'll start with the good news
all of this instant translation stuff
that actually has me buzzing I've never
mentioned this before but part of my
extended family is Italian and I mean
like proper Italian so it's often not
the easiest to communicate but check
this out this is what I do now when I
enter the chat it already knows that I'm
wanting to talk in Italian so it's got
the Italian translator preloaded I type
my message into that translator wait a
couple of seconds and then the
translated text appears in my WhatsApp
chat window ready to hit send and the
fact that it is just set it and forget
it the fact that it knows in which chats
you want the translation and in which
chats you don't the fact that it works
across all your different messaging apps
like SMS WhatsApp Instagram is
absolutely amazing it means you're going
to talk more with people you otherwise
might not it means you're going to be
able to express yourselves better and
also people like being talked to in
their own language it's funny actually
my sister-in-law was so taken aback by
my sudden Italian fluency she genuinely
thought someone had hacked my phone and
called my mom to check now it isn't
perfect the translation isn't instant
and Samsung's quality of translation is
definitely not as good as Google's like
if I type in is this Italian working BTW
Samsung gets very confused whereas
Google understands that BTW means by the
way and then makes the translation
accordingly and can also better
understand if something is a question
even if you've not explicit added a
question mark and you are still going to
run into dialect problems current
translation tools are good for simple
requests but actually trying to have a
conversational tone is still not quite
possible because a lot of things don't
translate literally but as a first stab
this is pretty awesome because Samsung
has now set the precedent for what one
day absolutely will be a game changer
the other thing that's been surprisingly
useful is the AI summarization features
like while I'm on Android I've always
been a Google Chrome user I'm now active
choosing to use the Samsung browser
because of the summaries I don't use it
all the time but let's say you hop onto
a forum discussion post this AI can
actually read everything that every
single person has written and then give
you a 30-second summary of all the key
opinions and that same AI technology
also helps you out with your notes I've
mentioned this before but my notes used
to be a big old mess because of the
chaotic nature of thoughts and my notes
being the way that I keep track of those
thoughts they're the one part of my
digital life that's had no trace of
organization
but this phone changes that for starters
while every note would normally be
whatever grammar my keyboard spits out
in the moment the AI grammar checker
here actually makes those notes feel
like way more composed deliberate
thoughts which then in turn makes you
want to look after them and organize
them the way it formats your notes too
like if I'm writing a list of holiday
destinations the thing will actually
categorize them based on continent which
is exactly how I would have done it but
it just would have taken me like 10
times as long and then to finish the
whole thing off the phone even generates
AI powered covers for your notes which
kind of packages each one into what
feels like its own distinct novel almost
it'll even go through and read through
the handwritten writing on those notes
for info about what to title the note
now I do think the phone should just do
this automatically as opposed to you
having to click generate but still
compare this to my iPhone Notes Library
there is a world of difference and on
that note yes there is still an S Pen
inside of this phone and for me it's one
of those things that I completely forget
exists 99% of the time and some part of
me wishes Samsung had just swapped it
out for an even bigger battery until the
1% of time is where I really need it and
I count my lucky stars that it's right
there in front of me there's something
that feels very free form about writing
as opposed to typing which is why
whenever I'm ideating I'll always use my
remarkable tablet but do you know what
this has kind of absorbed the
functionality of that too being able to
just whip this Spen out and write even
when my phone's locked so I'm not
getting distracted it pretty much ticks
the same box my only complaint is that I
really feel like it should be on this
side given that I imagine most people
are going to be writing with their right
hands and so would want to take it out
from here I imagine the reason they've
done this is the cameras now take up a
little bit too much space to put it on
that side but Samsung didn't want to
move the cameras because that's become
their branding all right so then we've
got Circle to search which is basically
hold the bottom part of your screen and
you enter this new mode this mode where
you can take whatever is on your screen
zoom in zoom out move around and when
you're ready Circle something and Google
will tell you what it is and for the
first 5 days of using this phone I
actually completely forgot this feature
existed cuz you know your default is to
use your phone the way you already know
how to use your phone Circle to search
requires a very conscious shift in how
you think about searching but when it
clicked for me it clicked hard this
feature is absolutely incredible you see
a photo of a cool product and you want
to know what it is circle you see a
photo of a phone you don't recognize
Circle you want to Reby whatever flowers
are in the house Circle to find out
exactly what they are you see a photo of
the most beautiful hotel View Circle it
to find out exactly which hotel it is
and I am continuously surprised at how
accurate it is it's very easy for a
feature like this to just be a gimmick
this is actually based on something
Google made years ago called now on tap
where you hold down your home button and
your phone tells you exactly what's on
your screen it was a gimmick then but
the seamlessness how it doesn't exit the
app you're currently in meaning you can
find out what you want to find out and
with one swipe be back where you were
the fluid it how you can Circle you can
scribble you can just tap and the phone
always seems to get what you're trying
to highlight and then the intelligence
of the results makes this I'm going to
say GameChanger category like just
yesterday this is going to sound like
one of the most first world situations
ever we got this snack in my kitchen on
the opposite side to where I was sitting
I just remembered we were running out of
that snack and I wanted to top up but I
couldn't remember what they were called
so pulled out my Samsung zoomed all the
way into that snack entered Circle to
search and within about 5 Seconds that
exact product was in my Amazon basket
now obviously that's a dumb example but
I think it kind of illustrates how
Circle to search almost opens the
floodgates to what becomes searchable it
makes your phone genuinely feel like
your own personal interactive interface
with the world and now picking up my
iPhone which doesn't have it it feels
old school and then the final AI feature
that I like is the instant slow-mo it's
a top tier idea with good execution it
just needs a bit of Polish sometimes
when you use it the video video will
either lag at the start till the phone
catches up or create weird artifacts as
it's not quite able to insert the
perfect in between frames when slowing
videos down okay all that said there is
some stuff that I don't like like the
live call translation which is
significantly worse than the text
message translation basically because
it's the same thing but all of a sudden
has to happen in real time to be clear
I'm really glad Samsung's made this it
just needs to get better let me give you
an example I'm trying to decide between
pineapple on pizza and pinea on pasta
what do you think I should go
for I think you should go to
[Applause]
jail oh yeah and uh if you're enjoying
this video then a sub to the channel
would be jeans Waits a moment oh yes
jeans you could just use my mom maybe
what no that's not what you were trying
to say right so do you have a sub to the
channel word fantastic wonderful the
best YouTube channel yes we got there
however there's also some more General
caveats Worth bearing in mind for all of
this AI stuff one that a lot of
Samsung's AI is actually based on Google
tech and so even some of the things that
Samsung made seem like an exclusive
almost definitely will not stay that way
for very long two that a lot of these AI
features aren't actually going to
require you to buy the
s24su not being made clear so you feel
like you need to buy the new thing and
then three is the fine print the little
disclaimer that we all knew would pop up
as soon as we found out that a lot of
these AI features are relying on
Samsung's online servers that the online
AI features are only going to be free
until the end of 2025 I don't like it
cuz you know the company comes on stage
and they say our new phone does this
amazing thing and like these s24 phones
they're expensive so naturally most
people are going to assume that price is
your price of Entry to use those
features that's how it's worked with
every single up until this point so
having this hidden charge to use the
headline feature you're launching your
phone with doesn't sit well with me and
yes Samsung is taking on extra cost from
the servers they're going to have to use
to host these AI requests I get that but
then either don't release the feature
till it can run without that or don't
sell it as a feature of the phone
because it's not then it's a feature of
your servers and yes they're saying the
AI will be free till the end of 2025 but
if anyone buys this phone now then even
if you're just on a short 24-month plan
you will still just enter the period
where you will have to hand over your
credit card details for what could well
be yet another monthly subscription on
top of the monthly fees you're already
paying for your data on top of the price
of the phone okay I've had my moan so
final couple of things before we bring
this all together in case I didn't
already make this clear this is also the
fastest Samsung I've ever used but what
happens when you push it well I have
recently come to the realization that
the PlayStation 2 can finally be
properly emulated on Android phones and
bear in mind emulation is a very
resource intensive task cuz it's not
just that your phone has to run a game
it's actually that it has to use its
power to simulate a completely different
set of Hardware that the game was
originally designed to run on but this
thing can do it this phone is powerful
enough that I was plain sailing through
my entire childhood library of PS2 games
including upscaling them to run in HD
and that is about as demanding a thing
as you can ask a phone to do now that in
itself is kind of a sore spot too cuz I
do really want to start seeing phone
companies not just dropping a load of
big numbers in our lap and saying here
you go have fun but actually helping to
create reasons for that power to exist
like I don't know work with Rockstar to
bring GTA 5 to the phone and show how
your phone can run it that would be
exciting but as for where this sits on
the smartphone performance ladder I
would say top three phones in the market
right now if you pull up a synthetic
stress test you can see how the
performance does not maintain its peak
level it does get hot and the
performance does dip after prolonged
stress and this isn't negligible I
wouldn't write it off to the people who
are looking at getting the extra four or
five frames per second when gaming for
over an hour at a time you will be able
to tell the difference between this and
a dedicated gaming phone but me
personally I've only actually been able
to see those thermal issues when using
benchmarks none of my normal use my
gaming use or my emulator use has caused
any noticeable dip at all and the phone
does that while lasting for ages this is
the best battery life ever in a Samsung
Flagship the battery isn't bigger
they've just found ways to get more out
of it I want to slightly caveat that by
saying I definitely with this phone
notice a higher difference than normal
between its high drain States and its
low drain States like when I'm playing a
big game even for 30 minutes and I come
out I will have dropped 5 to 8% I would
guess because this chip has such a high
performance ceiling that it can go to
but then equally when I'm browsing on
YouTube and Instagram the phone feels
like it's going to last forever and so
what that means is the average for me is
8 to 9 hours of screen on time per
charge I'm reaching evenings with at
least 25% left in the tank but sometimes
even 50 which is quite a lot more than I
can say for my iPhone so with all of
this in mind at least until something
big happens on the Apple end the iPhone
is now being relegated to a secondary
phone and this is the one that I'm going
to be keeping my Sim in mostly because I
think Samsung's fixed a lot of their
longer running issues this time around
the software looks great it feels great
the camera feels smooth and in fixing
the fundamentals it also gives you the
space to appreciate the extras the
gorgeous anti-reflective screen the
updated materials and the inhand feel
and the AI features a lot of which
actually do make it feel like I am
holding something next Generation
although what isn't clear at this point
is how much of the stuff that I've Loved
about using this phone will also apply
to last generation Samsungs when they
too also inevitably get the latest
software update like if they get a lot
of the same AI features and the same
level of Polish and efficiency then the
need to Spring for the absolute latest
is drastically diminished so I would say
if you're on an s23 right now hang on to
find out now you might have also noticed
right there on my phone's home screen
the surf shark VPN icon there's a reason
that with surf shark it's not just about
having a VPN this is your entire
internet toolkit in one like for example
it can create you an alternative ID an
entire name address postal code email
address and you can permanently have
access to those details and copy them
with a single click it can change your
GPS location as well as your internet
location which means let's say you're
playing Pokmon go and you want to catch
a Pokmon that's on the other side of
the planet you can do that from your
bedroom and save yourself $11,000 in
flights it has a kill switch which means
if you want to make sure that you're
secure at all times you can set surf
shark up to automatically cut the
internet connection if the VPN
connection ever drops not to mention
servers that are specifically designed
to wipe themselves every single time
they're turned off so none of your data
is kept so when you combine that with
the fact that when you use the code boss
it's less than $3 a month for an
unlimited number of accounts with an
extra 6 months for free and a 30-day
money back guarantee it's a bit of a
no-brainer